
Quantitative Reasoning Assignment

Christina Dietrich
1 December 2021


    Upon deciding whether to use an "if" statement, I determine if there are
multiple options I want as a result. For example, when I wanted my camel
game to do specific things based on the user's choice, I used "if" statements
so that each option (a, b, c, d, e) produces a different result. Deciding whether
or to use a loop, I have to determine which kind of loop I want. When I know the
number of times I want to loop, I use a "for" loop. When I want the loop to go
until something else happens, I use a "while" loop. An example of a "for" loop
would be in the loopy lab when I wanted the rectangles to be drawn a certain
amount of times. I used the "for" loop for it nto draw 30 rectangles in a row and
30 rectangles in a column. In the camel lab, I used a "while" loop to run my
program until the player won or lost. The text questions cycled until the player
either won or lose the program.
    Using a list can come in handy when I wanted to place every element into a
specific place or change words to have numerical values. An example of using a
list would be in the spell check lab when I wanted each word in the dictionary
to be assigned to a value in the list. This made it easy to compare the words in
the dictionary to the words in the book by running through each position in the
list. Using a function is easy especially when drawing a scene and simplifying
code. In lab three, I used the idea of functions
to draw multiple of the same items while only typing the x and y variables.
The idea of classes can aid in the creation of separate items under the same
type of functioning. For example, in lab 8, I used the idea of classes to create
separate code for keys, cacti, and the player. They were all able to be
referenced later in the code by utilizing the class name.
    In order to communicate a solution to a certain problem, it is important to
be descriptive in the solution. In coding, this is especially important
throughout many aspects of a program. One way to be descriptive is through
commenting. Commenting in a code can elaborate on what a certain line of code
is, especially if it may be unclear to the reader of the code. Another way to
be descriptive in coding is to have descriptive names of functions. For example,
defining a function as "h" instead of "draw_house" would be confusing to a
person trying to interpret or change the code. One other way to be descriptive
inside of code is naming variables specifically. This goes along with naming
function, but may be easier to label in a non-specific way. Instead of calling
a variable just x or y, it is better to name a variable with something like row
or column in order for an easier interpretation of the code.
    In the same way that description is important, the structure of the code is
also important. It is easy to get carried away and have one code chunk fo the
entirety of the code, but this is hard to understand. In order to make code
easier to interpret, it is important to chunk specific pieces of code by
separating it with blank lines above and below it. This is easiest to do based
on separate topics within the code.
    It is also important to keep track of changes within code. When trying to
communicate code with someone else or having multiple editors of on piece of code,
it is important to save keep track of what has been changed. For example, if
something in the code crashes that was previously running, if you still have the
version of the code that was previously running, it would be easy to compare
the new code with the old code in order to determine the error.
    While testing the accuracy of code, it is most important to run the program.
If the program crashes, the easiest way to debug it is to look at the error it
outputs and determine what this means. Usually, the error puts a link to the line
that is the problem in the code. If the error line is hard to interpret or if I
do not know what it means, I check the errors that I or others normally make
within code. For example, in a function, it is easy to forget the colon after
the creation of it. The error output from this is not very good, so it is
important to check general errors that many make just in case I made those same
mistakes.
    Once the program is running, one other issue could be if you have the correct
answer. One way we can know if the output is correct is whether the math makes
sense. This was easiest when working with code that sorts numbers in a list.
It is easy to determine how many times the list should have run in order to
sort the program, however, it is also important to check. We can check whether
the loop ran the right amount of times by creating a running total and printing it
out. This number

3. -try running the code, if error locate line, in functions make sure there are colons(check normal errors)
4. -original ideas, algorithms can crash
    Numerical methods cannot always be used to make decisions because along
with every decision, there are both pros and cons. Weighing those pros and
cons is important in the decision-making process. The decision should not
be randomly chosen, and sometimes a choice may be made that has more cons.
That aspect of decision-making is important in life, and it would take the
human part out of being human.
    We cannot simply replace humans with algorithms because that would become
extremely monotonous. Although algorithms are methodical and can help to some
extent, but algorithms can crash and in that case humans would have to be
trained to fix that. Humans can come up with original ideas that are new and
innovative and could help to benefit society. In the same way humans cannot
be replaced by algorithms, students should not be replaced by a grade or test
score. A student may not be good at taking tests, but they may excel at doing
a certain project. A student's capacity to do well cannot be solely based on
how well they do on tests because students may be better at a different way
of measuring understanding. We can't evaluate a teacher only on how well their
students do because we have no idea if those students want to learn. The teacher
only has so much control over whether their students are doing the best they can.
If some students fail, it may be out of the teacher's control.
    The limitation to evaluating athletes only on their stats is how much that can
become a part of the athlete's life. Telling a person their worth is only as good
as a number is harmful to a person's well-being. Outside of being an athlete,
their life has much more to it, and they deserve to be seen as a whole person and
not just a single number or stat.